Hi, everyone.
In this next year, we're going to create our game loop.
All right, so in the previous project, we talked about the game loop and how the job of the game loop
is just to redraw the screen for us, like, for example, in the case of a 60 hertz screens 60 times
per one second.
And that is going to give us the illusion of actually animating certain pieces of the canvas.
Right.
So in this case, we are basically in any kind of game project, we are going to be involved with some
sort of a game loop.
All right.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to I'm going to create a comment now before that, we have done
some stuff here.
And I'm sure you know what these are.
We have selected our canvas with what's called the 2D context.
You specified height and a width, and I should probably save it and open up a life server.
And so this is going to be our game.
And I forgot the project number, so I'm just going to add it right here.
So project number, it's 41.
All right.
So what do we have?
So first off, I'm just going to say running the game or I'm just going to call it the game loop, the
game loop.
So I'm going to create a function and I'm going to call this function run game.
Right.
There are there are going to be any parameters.
But the first thing that we want to do inside this function is we want to request animation frames.
Now, this request animation front is going to render this function 60 times per second because that
is the refresh rate of our screen.
So 60 times per second, we are refreshing our screen.
And each time the screen is being refreshed, we are drawing a specific piece on the screen and in the
next refresh because that piece is likely going to change its position.
We are going to remove the previous mirage or image of that specific piece that we have.
So I'm going to call the function right here and I'm going to say a run game.
Now, what do we want this Rangin to do?
First things first?
Let's go ahead and let's test this.
So I'm going to say game running.
I'm going to test it, of course, in our next project.
I'm not going to be I'm not going to be doing all the stuff from the ground up.
I'm just providing you with a solid foundation so we can go ahead and we can dive into creating these
kinds of awesome games.
So you can see that this game running, this is actually running and this is going to run 60 times per
second because of our refresh rate.
So we can see that our game loop has been created.
And I'm going to delete this.
Now, the first thing that I want to do is I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to delete this and I'm
going to come down here and I'm going to create some variables.
I'm not going to comment anything.
So the first variable that I'm going to create is going to be the exposition and I'm going to put it
at 400.
These are the positions for a Super Bowl.
Then I'm going to create the Y position y p.
Now, in the previous lecture, in the previous chapter, we talked about this position and we said
that the horizontal position and horizontal velocity will literally wrote the entire phrase.
But that's that's going to take a long time.
And you saw how many mistakes or typos we had in our previous project, which ended up in creating BUKs.
So what I'm going to do is I'm just going to abbreviate them to X, which is horizontal position X and
Y P vertical position.
And then if we have I don't think we have velocity in here.
But if we were to have velocity four X, I'm going to say X, V, capital V and Y capital V.
So this is going to be the position where the ball is going to appear.
Now, keep in mind, this position is actually the center point for a ball.
So if I reload this page, you can see that the ball is directly in the middle.
And that's exactly right here.
So the center of the ball has an X of 400 and a Y of three hundred.
And then whenever we give it the radius 50 and then say the start angle is zero and the end angle is
math, that PI times two, it is going to draw this entire circle around the specific dot or the specific
coordinate that we gave it.
So these are actually the coordinates of the center of the circle.
Now let's give it the radius.
Radius, and I'm going to say I'm going to give it 50 and we are going to give it a speed of.
So let's save it after that, what I'm going to do as before drawing the the ball here, I'm going I'm
going to call the draw ball function.
And keep in mind, this should be at the end.
This run game should be at the end.
So now let's go ahead and let's draw a ball so we know we want to draw.
I'm going to say drawing the ball now, whenever we want to draw this ball, we have we know all we
have all the background.
We know how we can draw a circle.
So first things first, let's call that.
Let's define the function, draw the ball, no parameters.
And I'm going to say canvas context for first of all, let's say for style, I'm going to set it to
white.
So if you're to fill that circle, you're going to say first style.
If you want to just provide the circumference color, you just going to say feel sorry, stroke style.
So canvas context that begin path.
All right, canvass context, dot org, so this is the method now we have our horizontal position,
which is expe vertical position, which is why p we have a radius, the start angle is going to be zero.
The end angle is going to be math dot pi, which is going to give us 180 degrees and we are going to
multiply it by two.
So we get 360 and finally canvas dot fill it so that we should be able to see a circle here.
There we go.
We see a circle right there.
Right.
So we have been able to draw that circle right now.
If we were to give it some motion, what we would do as we are going to, we have to specify the.
Now I want to move the circle using my Iraqis.
You could move it using the A W and SD keys, which are I think these are the keys, which you usually
play games with them.
Like if you want to move, like for example, like a racing game, you want to move to right and left,
you can say A and D or you want to, for example, like move forward, which you don't have to really.
It's going to move forward by itself.
But you get the point if you want to move like that, you can either say the A W is D or like the Arrow
keys.
But I think the arrow keys are like they are they are going to make more sense.
So what we are going to do in the next lecture is we are going to grab the arrow inputs and we are going
to say whenever we press the up arrow, whenever we press the arrow through this, whenever I press
K doesn't go away.
It's just whenever I press the up arrow, it should move up.
Whenever I press the down arrow, it should move down in the same way for a left and right.
But instead of the key press, we are going to listen for key down.
Whenever the key is down, we are going to move forward and whenever the key is up, we are going to
stop moving forward.
And the reason that we are going to use key track, key down and keep is keep press only fires once,
but key down fires continuously until the event does not fire anymore, until we take our hand off that
key.
So that's it for this lecture.
See you guys in the next one.